I use the term understanding and
explanation almost interchangeably an
explanation is something that explains
what you see in terms of what you don't
see it explains what might happen in
terms of General ideas about what can
happen
so understanding transcends the initial
application of what it's for let's say
you you initially learn how to throw a
ball from one person to another for fun
or you throw it as a weapon or something
like that but then later someone can ask
what path does the ball take and then
that may allow them to construct a
better weapon or a better defense or a
million other things in future
Generations which all depend on the
meaning
and may have nothing to do with the
original application
but I should add that this initial burst
of understanding or creativity into the
world was blighted by the fact that
memes tend to evolve like genes memes
tend to evolve to breed true that is
memes which can get themselves
Faithfully copied
are preferred to ones which can't so
regardless of whether they're true or
not regardless right that that's their
tendency that's that what they tend to
do
and so initially
creativity was used only for copying
ideas Faithfully which is almost the
opposite use of what we consider
creativity to be used for today which is
to improve upon ideas
this is why our ancestors spent a
hundred thousand years basically doing
nothing
before very very slowly
they changed their lifestyle first
better tools and so on and then
Agriculture and civilization and so on
but still
improvements were extremely rare so that
most
people most humans did not experience
any Improvement in their lifetime